Mr. Davin Arnold.

Some secondary thoughts on my design ideas.

Two points I am reconsidering.

1. The design of the storage tank. 

In my original design was around the heat riser barrel, which for heat exchange considerations 
would be the optimal arrangement, but could otherwise overheat the water too easily, causing pressure problems. 
So my secondary thought was to not put it around the heat riser barrel, but on top of it, so it has less surface contact for heat exchange. And would make the 
design some more slender.
This is something that needs to be judged based on experimentation.

2. The design of pressure release / downgrading fuel injection

Stopping or slowing down fuel injection would take some time to become effective and would not reduce the heat immediately.
To avoid having to release steam or release hot water, there should perhaps be some other clever way to moderate or stop the heat inside
the heat riser barrel in a more direct fashion. 
The most direct way to do that would be to block the channel from the furnace to the heat riser, but this would cause another problem,
as the furnace now doesn't have suction, and would cause the fire to run not sideways but upwards, which we don't want.
So it should then haven an emergency secondary chimney channel, but this channel now also contains unburnt gasses, which we can not
vent out using our standard chimney. 
But it could be testes if one can make it work like a water pipe (smoking tobacco though a tube, where tobacco smoke is first funneled 
into a water bottle, to filter out particles and to moderate the heat) system.
So that outlet pipe of unburnt exhaust (like a normal wood stove) should go into a closed barrel half filled with water, and the air gets 
sucked out by connecting it to the standard chimney.
it should be tested if that is a safe way of doing this. Otherwise there should be placed some heat resisting filter in this outlet pipe
that filters out most unburnt particles. Since this would not moderate the temperature of the gasses, or only moderately, it would 
not alter the suction of the chimney.

This is of course non-standard operation, and should not normally take place, other then in case of overheating and over-pressure in 
the water storage tank, and would only last a short time. When the pressure is below the threshold value again, normal operations 
can be resumed.
This water tank that would cool down the outlet of the rocket stove and filters out the unburnt particles (like a water pipe), 
or if that doesn't work, the filter system, should of course be easy to maintain by draining the water and residue from it, clean, and refill to appropriate level (manual procedure).

Maybe this is overdesigning, as a preesure release valve from the hot water storage tank should probably be enough to deal with the 
over-pressure problem, and would probably be adquate enough to prevent the system having to vent out steam, and dealing with venting
out hot steam is easier as having to vent out hot partly unburned gases from the stove, so maybe this system is not necessary.




